# CS 2378 Final Project

Simulating the gross revenue generated by a collective of entities,
given the copyright term were X years.

## An explanation of the simulation

**Note:** the variable names mentioned in the brackets are the corresponding names in the `variables.json` document

- $y =$ the number of years since the start of the simulation, and $Y=$ years of simulation (`simulationYears`)
- $E =$ number of entities in the simulation (`contentProducingEntities`).
- $P_{avg}$ is the average profitability of a copyrighted work
- $C =$ the copyright term in years (`copyrightTerm`)
- $R_v() \in {0,1}$ is a random value generating function (`Math.random`)

### Pure revenue generated  of work = $R_w(y)$

Is modelled using a gaussian bell curve.
$R_w(y) =  floor( m_w e^{-\frac{(y - p_w)^2}{2m_w^2}} )$

#### $p_w$ is the year of peak profitability of this work
- Let $Y_{max}$ be the max years it takes for a work to be profitable (`maxYearsTillMaxProfitability`).
- It is computed as $p_l = \{ 3R_v()\ \ if R_v() < 0.5 \ \ else \ \ Y_{max}R_v() \}$

#### $m_w$ is the profit generated in the most profitable year
- Let $d_w$ be the derivative value of the work.
	-  i.e. if the work is original, $d_w = 0$
	- If the work was derived from an (public domain) original work, $d_w = 1$
	- Else, $d_w = d_{w2} + 1$ (derivative value of the work it is derived from + 1)
- $D_f$ is the derivative factor (`derivativeFactor`). It models how does being a derivative work affect revenue generated from the newly generated work.
- It is modelled as $m_w = (R_v() + 0.5 + d_w*0.1)*0.5*P_{avg}$

### Loss due to piracy

Is modelled as a product of already existing revenue $R(y)$ and $C$ with a multiplying factor $p_l$ (`piracyMultiplier`)

Loss due to piracy in any given year ($y$) = $L_w(y) = \sigma(({\sum}_{i=1}^{y-1} R_w(i)) * C * p_l)$

- The sigmoid function is used to limit the range to (0,1)

###  Revenue of a work, adjusted for piracy

$S_w(y) = R_w(i) * (1 - L_w(i))$

### Total revenue generated by an entity = $R_e(y)$

$R_e(y) =$ total revenue generated by an entity $e$ till year $y$

### Max Works possibly generated by an entity = $M_w(e, y)$

#### $M(e)$ is the initial work production capacity.
- $S$ is a constant describing the max works any entity can produce at any given point in Time (`maxWorksPerEntity`).
- $I$ is the inequality factor $\in \{0,1\}$ (`initialInequality`). 0 means a fully equal design, all entities can produce the same amount of work from the very start.
- It is modelled as $M(e) = ceil( e^{(x/S)I + 1} ) * S$

Now, $M_w(e, y) = R_e(y-1)*0.01 + M(e)$

### Probability of generating a new work in a given year =  $P_g(e, y)$

- $W$ is work generating constant. Higher the value, more the content produced in a year.
- $P(y) =$ set of all publicly available content in year $y$
- $W_p$ is public work "inspiration" constant. Lower the value, more the content produced via public domain content in a year
- $P_g(e, y) =$
	- $0 \ \ if |W(e)| >= M_w(e, y)$ (limit number of works that can be copyrighted by an entity at any given time) 
	- $1 \ \ if \ \ R_v() < W * max(R_e(y-1), 10)$
	- $1 \ \ if \ \ R_v() < \frac{|P(y)|}{W_p}$
	- $0 \ \ otherwise$

### Gross revenue generated ($LR$)

$LR =$
- Initialize $LR = 0$
- Initialize $W_e(1) =\{\}$. (No works in the first year)
- $for \ \ y \ \ in \ \ \{1,Y\}$
	- $for \ \ e \ \ in  \ \ \{1,E\}$:
	- $if \ \ P_g(e, y) = 1$:
	- $W_e(y) = W_e(y-1) + W()$ (add a new copyrighted work for this entity)
	- $LR += {\sum}_w^{W_e(y)}R_w(y)$
	- $for \ \ w \ \ in  \ \ \{1,W\}$:
		- if $y - C_r(w) > C$: (if copyright term expired)
		- $P(y) = P(y) + w$ (make public work)
		- $W_e(y) -= w$ (remove as copyrighted work)